Apply Security Context to Your Pods and Containers,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Avoid use of system:masters group,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Cluster Access Manager API to streamline and enhance the management of access,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,NA
Consider Fargate for running untrusted workloads,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Create administrative boundaries between resources using namespaces,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Impact: of mistakes or malicious activities. A Kubernetes namespace allows you to partition created resources into logically named groups. Resources created in one namespace can be hidden from other namespaces. By default, each resource created by a user in an Amazon EKS cluster runs in a
Create administrative boundaries between resources using namespaces,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Impact: of mistakes or malicious activities. A Kubernetes namespace allows you to partition created resources into logically named groups. Resources created in one namespace can be hidden from other name spaces. By default, each resource created by a user in an Amazon EKS cluster runs in a
Enable audit Logs,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Impact: this Safeguard. ● ● ● Page 17 Controls Version Control IG 1 IG 2 IG 3 v8 8.2 Collect
Enable audit Logs,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Impact: Enabling control plane logs, including API server
Ensure Image Vulnerability Scanning using Amazon ECR image scanning or a third,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,NA
Ensure Image Vulnerability Scanning using Amazon ECR image scanning or a third party provider,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Ensure Kubernetes Secrets are encrypted using Customer Master Keys (CMKs),ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,NA
Ensure Kubernetes Secrets are encrypted using Customer Master Keys (CMKs) managed in AWS KMS,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Ensure Network Policy is Enabled and set as appropriate,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Description: Amazon EKS provides two ways to implement network policy. You choose a network policy option when you create an EKS cluster. The policy option can't be changed after the cluster is created: Calico Network Policies, an open-source network and network security solution founded by Tigera. Both...
Ensure Network Policy is Enabled and set as appropriate,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: By default, all pod to pod traffic within a cluster is allowed. Network Policy creates a pod-level firewall that can be used to restrict traffic between sources. Pod traffic is restricted by having a Network Policy that selects it (through the use of labels). Once there is any Network Policy in a...
Ensure Network Policy is Enabled and set as appropriate,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Description: Amazon EKS provides two ways to implement network policy. You choose a network policy option when you create an EKS cluster. The policy option can't be changed after the cluster is created: Calico Network Policies, an open-source network and network securi ty solution founded by Tigera. Both...
Ensure Network Policy is Enabled and set as appropriate,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: By default, all pod to pod traffic within a cluster is allowed. Network Policy creates a pod-level firewall that can be used to restrict traffic between sources. Pod traffic is restricted by having a Network Policy that selects it (through the use of label s). Once there is any Network Policy in a...
Ensure audit logs are collected and managed,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,NA
Ensure that the Anonymous Auth is Not Enabled,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Impact: Anonymous requests will be rejected.
Ensure that the Anonymous Auth is Not Enabled,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: When enabled, requests that are not rejected by other configured authentication methods are treated as anonymous requests. These requests are then served by the Kubelet server. You should rely on authentication to authorize access and disallow anonymous requests.
Ensure that the Anonymous Auth is Not Enabled,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Impact: This configuration might have a slight impact on usability for users who rely on anonymous access for certain functions or quick troubleshooting. Additionally, there might be a minimal performance overhead due to the added authentication steps for each req uest.
Ensure that the Anonymous Auth is Not Enabled,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: When enabled, requests that are not rejected by other configured authentication methods are treated as anonymous requests. These requests are then served by the Kubelet server. You should rely on authentication to authorize access and disallow anonymous re quests.
Ensure that the cluster-admin role is only used where required,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: Kubernetes provides a set of default roles where RBAC is used. Some of these roles such as cluster-admin provide wide-ranging privileges which should only be applied where absolutely necessary. Roles such as cluster-admin allow super-user access to perform any action on any resource. When used in a...
Ensure that the cluster-admin role is only used where required,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: Kubernetes provides a set of default roles where RBAC is used. Some of these roles such as cluster-admin provide wide-ranging privileges which should only be applied where absolutely necessary. Roles such as cluster-admin allow super-user access to perform any action on any resource. When used in...
Ensure that the kubeconfig file permissions are set to 644 or more restrictive,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Description: If kubelet is running, and if it is configured by a kubeconfig file, ensure that the proxy kubeconfig file has permissions of 644 or more restrictive.
Ensure that the kubeconfig file permissions are set to 644 or more restrictive,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: The kubelet kubeconfig file controls various parameters of the kubelet service in the worker node. You should restrict its file permissions to maintain the integrity of the file. The file should be writable by only the administrators on the system. It is possible to run kubelet with the kubeconfig...
Ensure that the kubeconfig file permissions are set to 644 or more restrictive,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,3.1.1 Ensure that the kubeconfig file permissions are set to 644 or more restrictive
Ensure that the--eventRecordQPS argument is set to 0 or a level which ensures,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,NA
Ensure that the--eventRecordQPS argument is set to 0 or a level which ensures appropriate event capture,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Ensure that the--hostname-override argument is not set,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Ensure that the--make-iptables-util-chains argument is set to true,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: Kubelets can automatically manage the required changes to iptables based on how you choose your networking options for the pods. It is recommended to let kubelets manage the changes to iptables. This ensures that the iptables configuration remains in sync with pods networking configuration....
Ensure that the--make-iptables-util-chains argument is set to true,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: Kubelets can automatically manage the required changes to iptables based on how you choose your networking options for the pods. It is recommended to let kubelets manage the changes to iptables. This ensures that the iptables configuration remains in sync with pod s networking configuration....
Ensure that the--protect-kernel-defaults argument is set to true,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Ensure that the--rotate-certificates argument is not present or is set to true,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: The--rotate-certificates setting causes the kubelet to rotate its client certificates by creating new CSRs as its existing credentials expire. This automated periodic rotation ensures that the there is no downtime due to expired certificates and thus addressing availability in the CIA...
Ensure that the--rotate-certificates argument is not present or is set to true,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: The--rotate-certificates setting causes the kubelet to rotate its client certificates by creating new CSRs as its existing credentials expire. This automated periodic rotation ensures that the there is no downtime due to expired certificates and thus addressing availability in th e CIA...
Manage Kubernetes RBAC users with AWS IAM Authenticator for Kubernetes,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Manage Kubernetes RBAC users with AWS IAM Authenticator for Kubernetes or,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,NA
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host IPC namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.hostIPC: true will not be permitted unless they are run under a specific PSP.
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host IPC namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: A container running in the host's IPC namespace can use IPC to interact with processes outside the container. There should be at least one PodSecurityPolicy (PSP) defined which does not permit containers to share the host IPC namespace. If you have a requirement to containers which require hostIPC,...
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host IPC namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.hostIPC: true will not be permitted unless they are run under a specific policy.
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host IPC namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: A container running in the host's IPC namespace can use IPC to interact with processes outside the container. There should be at least one admission control policy defined which does not permit containers to share the host IPC namespace. If you need to run containers which require hostIPC, this...
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host network namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.hostNetwork: true will not be permitted unless they are run under a specific PSP.
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host network namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: A container running in the host's network namespace could access the local loopback device, and could access network traffic to and from other pods. There should be at least one PodSecurityPolicy (PSP) defined which does not permit containers to share the host network namespace. If you have need to...
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host network namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.hostNetwork: true will not be permitted unless they are run under a specific policy.
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host network namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: A container running in the host's network namespace could access the local loopback device, and could access network traffic to and from other pods. There should be at least one admission control policy defined which does not permit containers to share the host network namespace. If you need to run...
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host process ID namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.hostPID: true will not be permitted unless they are run under a specific PSP.
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host process ID namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: A container running in the host's PID namespace can inspect processes running outside the container. If the container also has access to ptrace capabilities this can be used to escalate privileges outside of the container. There should be at least one PodSecurityPolicy (PSP) defined which does not...
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host process ID namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.hostPID: true will not be permitted unless they are run under a specific policy.
Minimize the admission of containers wishing to share the host process ID namespace,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: A container running in the host's PID namespace can inspect processes running outside the container. If the container also has access to ptrace capabilities this can be used to escalate privileges outside of the container. There should be at least one admission control policy defined which does not...
Minimize the admission of containers with added capabilities,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Minimize the admission of containers with allowPrivilegeEscalation,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Description: Do not generally permit containers to be run with the allowPrivilegeEscalation flag set to true.
Minimize the admission of containers with allowPrivilegeEscalation,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.allowPrivilegeEscalation: true will not be permitted unless they are run under a specific PSP.
Minimize the admission of containers with allowPrivilegeEscalation,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: A container running with the allowPrivilegeEscalation flag set to true may have processes that can gain more privileges than their parent. There should be at least one PodSecurityPolicy (PSP) defined which does not permit containers to allow privilege escalation. The option exists (and is defaulted...
Minimize the admission of containers with allowPrivilegeEscalation,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Description: Do not generally permit containers to be run with the allowPrivilegeEscalation flag set to true. Allowing this right can lead to a process running a container getting more rights than it started with. It's important to note that these rights are still constrained by the overall container sandbox,...
Minimize the admission of containers with allowPrivilegeEscalation,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.allowPrivilegeEscalation: true will not be permitted unless they are run under a specific policy. Page 94 Internal Only-General
Minimize the admission of containers with allowPrivilegeEscalation,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: A container running with the allowPrivilegeEscalation flag set to true may have processes that can gain more privileges than their parent. There should be at least one admission control policy defined which does not permit containers to allow privilege escalation. The option exists (and is...
Minimize the admission of containers with capabilities assigned,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Minimize the admission of privileged containers,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.containers[].securityContext.privileged: true will not be permitted.
Minimize the admission of privileged containers,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Impact: Pods defined with spec.containers[].securityContext.privileged: true, spec.initContainers[].securityContext.privileged: true and spec.ephemeralContainers[].securityContext.privileged: true will not be permitted. Page 85 Internal Only-General
Minimize the admission of root containers,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Prefer using a container-optimized OS when possible,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,NA
Prefer using dedicated EKS Service Accounts,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: Manual approaches for authenticating Kubernetes workloads running on Amazon EKS against AWS APIs are: storing service account keys as a Kubernetes secret (which introduces manual key rotation and potential for key compromise); or use of the underlying nodes' IAM Service account, which violates the...
Prefer using dedicated EKS Service Accounts,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: Manual approaches for authenticating Kubernetes workloads running on Amazon EKS against AWS APIs are: storing service account keys as a Kubernetes secret (which introduces manual key rotation and potential for key compromise); or use of the underlying node s' IAM Service account, which violates the...
Prefer using secrets as files over secrets as environment variables,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: It is reasonably common for application code to log out its environment (particularly in the event of an error). This will include any secret values passed in as environment variables, so secrets can easily be exposed to any user or entity who has access to the logs.
Prefer using secrets as files over secrets as environment variables,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: It is reasonably common for application code to log out its environment (particularly in the event of an error). This will include any secret values passed in as environment variables, so secrets can easily be exposed to any user or entity who has access t o the logs.
Restrict Access to the Control Plane Endpoint,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Impact: When implementing Endpoint Private Access, be careful to ensure all desired networks are on the allowlist (whitelist) to prevent inadvertently blocking external access to your cluster's control plane. Page 137
Restrict Access to the Control Plane Endpoint,ABSENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,Rationale: Authorized networks are a way of specifying a restricted range of IP addresses that are permitted to access your cluster's control plane. Kubernetes Engine uses both Transport Layer Security (TLS) and authentication to provide secure access to your cluster's control plane from the public internet....
Restrict Access to the Control Plane Endpoint,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Impact: When implementing Endpoint Private Access, be careful to ensure all desired networks are on the allowlist (whitelist) to prevent inadvertently blocking external access to your cluster's control plane.
Restrict Access to the Control Plane Endpoint,ABSENT-IN-cis-r1-kdes.yaml,PRESENT-IN-cis-r2-kdes.yaml,Rationale: Authorized networks are a way of specifying a restricted range of IP addresses that are permitted to access your cluster's control plane. Kubernetes Engine uses both Transport Layer Security (TLS) and authentication to provide secure access to your cluster 's control plane from the public internet....
